So in all the examples that
we've looked at so far,
the script block contains code that
runs when each component is initialized.
And most of the time that
is all that you'll need.
Very occasionally,
you will need to run some code outside
of an individual component instance.
So if you go back to our audio example
from earlier, one thing about this
that's not so great is that you can
play all of these tracks simultaneously,
[MUSIC]
Right?
This is not what we
want in a music player.
[MUSIC]
It'd be better if we could stop
the current audio from playing when a new
audio player starts, and we can do
that by declaring some module context.
Inside AudioPlayer.svelte,
we're gonna create a new script block, but
this time we're gonna add this
context = module attribute.
Inside there,
we're gonna declare a value current, and
all of the instances of
AudioPlayer can see that value.
And so on our AudioPlayer,
we can add an event listener,
that when the audio starts playing,
We check if there's an existing audio
element playing, and if so, we pause it.
Right, if this audio
element is not current and
if the current exists, pause it and
change the value of current
to be the current audio.
Right, and now when we start playing this
[MUSIC]
Each new AudioPlayer
will stop the last one.
[SOUND] We can also export
things from the module context.
So again, back in AudioPlayer.svelte,
we have this module context, and
we would like to make it possible for
a consumer of this component
to stop all of the audio.
So create a new function, stopAll.
And if there is a current audio element,
we'll pause it.
And then now inside our App.svelte,
we can now import the named
function that we just declared,
just like any other JavaScript module.
And we can add a new button
below the audio tracks.
When we click it, and
just call that function.
[MUSIC]
Works as expected.
So you cannot have a default export from
your script context = module because
the component is the default export,
but other than that you can.
Yeah, it's basically just
a normal JavaScript module and so
you have all of the power of
a normal JavaScript module.
Does anyone have any questions
about module context?
All right, we're getting very close.
Yes, Chris.
>> What was the purpose of instantiating
current in a separate script block?
>> So if you were to declare
current inside the normal script,
this is scope to the component instance.
So inside here we can change
the value inside the component, but
it doesn't impact any of
the other components.
By having it up here,
this is part of the module and
all of the instances of this
component can read the same variable.
>> Does this affect after update?
I mean, does it trigger a rerender across
all of their components sharing this
context?
>> No it does not, so
the values inside the context = module,
these are not reactive in
the same way that variables
inside the components normal
script block are reactive.
This is just a regular JavaScript
variable with no magic applied to it.
If you do want components to be able
to react to changes in this data,
that's when you should use a store
instead of a normal variable.
Okay, so sometimes it's useful to be able
to inspect a piece of data as it's flown
through your app.
You can use console.log,
liberally inside your markup if you want.
But if you wanna add a debugger
statement inside your component markup,
you can do that with the debug tag,
with a comma separated list of
the values that you want to inspect.
So in our App.svelte here,
we've got a console.log of user,
and when we change the value of that
is going to get logged to the console.
This is easiest to see if I
open this in a separate window.
Let's get rid of all of the junk.
If we start typing in here, you'll see
that it does in fact get logged out.
But we can do one better than that,
we can get rid of the console.log and
replace it with a debug tag.
And now you'll see that
because we have DevTools open,
we've actually paused execution
of the component, and
we can start to see these local variables
and we can interact with them, and
understand how the data is
flowing through our application.
And that concludes parts one and
two of the Svelte tutorial.
You basically know everything
there is to know about Svelte now,
all of the features that
Svelte itself has to offer.
So hopefully you've learned
something during this process,
whether it's entirely new things or
a refresher of things that you
are a little bit rusty on, but
for now you should take a break,
pat yourself on the back and
feel good about becoming a Svelte expert.